feat:  Adding README.txt for release e2e-tests (#547)
redhat-appstudio/e2e-tests: tests/release/README.md

# Release tests

Contains E2E tests related to [Release Service](https://github.com/redhat-appstudio/infra-deployments/tree/main/components/release).

Steps to run tests within `release` directory:

> 1. Follow the instructions from the [Readme](../../docs/Installation.md) scripts to install AppStudio in e2e mode

Reviewer: these are the instructions for openshift-ci, I think the link should point to https://github.com/redhat-appstudio/e2e-tests/blob/main/README.md#install-appstudio-in-e2e-mode

Author: after all we changed this README to include the use cases covered in suite 
to avoid duplication , thanks @psturc

2. Run the release e2e-tests suite: 
   1. `./bin/e2e-appstudio --ginkgo.focus="release"`
   2. `./bin/e2e-appstudio --ginkgo.junit-report=report.xml  --ginkgo.focus="release"`

   in both ways,all tests in release suite will run, all that are not set to Pending or Skip.

   more options can be useful : 
   1. --ginkgo.label-filter=<required-label> 

>       in It test if you add a label, then we add optition above with specific labebl, 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      in It test if you add a label, then we add option above with specific label, 
```

>       then all tests from release suite and with selected labebl only will run and not all suite.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      then all tests from release suite and with selected label only will run and not the entire suite.
```

# Release e2e tests

Contains E2E tests related to [Release Service](https://github.com/redhat-appstudio/infra-deployments/tree/main/components/release).

This document will detail the e2e tests included for the release suite.

## e2e tests

> ### 1. Them manual good path (release.go)

Reviewer 3: `s/Them/The/`

   This test verifies the functionality of the release-service in watching for new release CRs then performing the necessary actions based on the design.

      Steps:
       - Create the following CRs: Snapshot, ReleaseStrategy, ReleasePlan, EnterpriseContractPolicy, ReleasePlanAdmission, and Release.

      Expected Results:
      - The release PipelineRun is successfully created in the managed namespace.
      - The PipelineRun should pass.
      - Validate that the Release passes.
      - Validate that the Release object is referenced by the PipelineRun.

### 2. Automated good path (e2e-test-default-bundle.go)

>    Test focuses on running the release pipeline when a user creates all the required CRDs. Once the component is created, we expect the build pipeline to pass. Integration-service will create a release CR thus release-service will trigger release pipeline `release`, we expect it pass and release CR to be successful.

Reviewer 3: creates all the required CRs, not CRDs.

      Expected Results:
       - A build PipelineRun is created in the dev namespace.
       - The build PipelineRun passes.
       - The release PipelineRun is successfully created in the managed namespace.
       - The release PipelineRun is expected to pass.
       - Validate that the Release is expected to pass.

### 3. Automated good path with deployment (e2e-test-default-with-deployment.go)

   This test is designed to run the release pipeline pipeline-deploy-release and involves defining the environment. Once the release successfully passes, the application and components will be copied to the specified environment.

      Steps:
       - Create the following CRs: PVC, ServiceAccount, ReleaseStrategy, ReleasePlan, EnterpriseContractPolicy, ReleasePlanAdmission, Environment, Application, and Component.            
      Expected Results:
       - A build PipelineRun is created in the dev namespace.
       - The build PipelineRun passes.
       - The release PipelineRun is successfully created in the managed namespace.
       - The release PipelineRun is expected to pass.
       - Validate that the Release is expected to pass.

>        - Copy the application and component to the environment and ensure the process succeeds.

Reviewer: should "image upload to pyxis" test scenario be added here as well

Author: Thanks @psturc , that use case will be added in a separate task .

# Release e2e tests

Contains E2E tests related to [Release Service](https://github.com/redhat-appstudio/infra-deployments/tree/main/components/release).

> In this document will be detailed the included e2e tests for release suitre.

Reviewer 3: `This document will detail the e2e tests included for the release suite.`

## e2e tests

> ### 1. Good Path (release.go)

Reviewer 3: maybe we say this is the manual good path and 2 is the automated good path? Since we seem to manually create a release CR in this one

   This test verifies the functionality of the release-service in detecting snapshots and performing the necessary actions based on the design.

      Steps:

>        - Create the following CRDs: Snapshot, Release Strategy, Release Plan, Enterprise Contract, ReleasePlanAdmission, and Release.

Reviewer 3: There shouldn't be spaces in CRD names

>        - Create the following CRDs: Snapshot, ReleaseStrategy, ReleasePlan, EnterpriseContract, ReleasePlanAdmission, and Release.

Reviewer 3: You are creating CRs of the following kinds really... creating a CRD is creating a new definition

      Expected Results:
      - The release PipelineRun is successfully created in the managed namespace.
      - The PipelineRun should pass.
      - Validate that the Release passes.

>       - Validate that the Release object is referenced to the PipelineRun.

Reviewer 3: referenced *by* the pipelinerun

### 2. Good Path (e2e-test-default-bundle.go)

>    Test focuses on running the release pipeline when a user creates all the required CRDs. Once the component is created, we expect the build pipeline to pass. Integration-service will create a release CR thus release-service will trigger release pipeline `release`, we expect it pass and release CR to be successfull.

Reviewer 3: 1 less l in successful

>    Test focuses on running the release pipeline when a user creates all the required CRDs. Once the component is created, we expect the build pipeline to pass, followed by the creation of a snapshot with the component information. This triggers the creation of a release object, and both the release pipeline and release object are expected to pass.

Reviewer 3: The snapshot being created with the component information really has nothing at all to do with the release service

      Steps:

>        - Create the following CRDs: PVC, ServiceAccount, ReleaseStrategy, ReleasePlan, EnterpriseContract, ReleasePlanAdmission, Application, and Component.

Reviewer 3: same as L12

Reviewer 3: Isn't it an EnterpriseContractPolicy?

      Expected Results:
       - A build PipelineRun is created in the dev namespace.
       - The build PipelineRun passes.
       - The release PipelineRun is successfully created in the managed namespace.
       - The release PipelineRun is expected to pass.
       - Validate that the Release is expected to pass.

### 3. Good Path with deployment (e2e-test-default-with-deployment.go)

   This test is designed to run the release pipeline pipeline-deploy-release and involves defining the environment. Once the release successfully passes, the application and components will be copied to the specified environment.

      Steps:

>        - Create the following CRDs: PVC, ServiceAccount, ReleaseStrategy, ReleasePlan, EnterpriseContract, ReleasePlanAdmission, Environment, Application, and Component..

Reviewer 3: same as L12

Reviewer 3: One too many `.`s at the end of the line

       - The release PipelineRun is expected to pass.
       - Validate that the Release is expected to pass.

### 3. Automated good path with deployment (e2e-test-default-with-deployment.go)

   This test is designed to run the release pipeline pipeline-deploy-release and involves defining the environment. Once the release successfully passes, the application and components will be copied to the specified environment.

      Steps:
       - Create the following CRs: PVC, ServiceAccount, ReleaseStrategy, ReleasePlan, EnterpriseContractPolicy, ReleasePlanAdmission, Environment, Application, and Component.            
      Expected Results:
       - A build PipelineRun is created in the dev namespace.
       - The build PipelineRun passes.
       - The release PipelineRun is successfully created in the managed namespace.
       - The release PipelineRun is expected to pass.
       - Validate that the Release is expected to pass.
       - Copy the application and component to the environment and ensure the process succeeds.

### 4. Automated good path with pushing to Pyxis stage(e2e-test-push-image-to-pyxis.go)

>    Pyxis serves SRE to contain the images and SBOMs of deployed applications, this test to cover the use case where we create an application with two components and we exepect that relaease pipeline `push-to-external-registry`.

Reviewer 3: I'm not really getting too much out of this description (and it has some typos). Copying from the above style, maybe something like

This test is designed to run the release pipeline pipeline-push-to-external-registry and validates that the artifacts are successfully pushed to Pyxis.

      Steps:
       - Create the following CRs: PVC, ServiceAccount, ReleaseStrategy, ReleasePlan, EnterpriseContractPolicy, ReleasePlanAdmission, Application, and two Components.            
      Expected Results:
       - A build PipelineRun is created in the dev namespace.
       - The build PipelineRun passes.
       - The release PipelineRun is successfully created in the managed namespace.
       - The release PipelineRun is expected to pass.

>        - Validate that the Release is expected to pass.

Reviewer 3: This reads weird. It is the expected results section so maybe like `The Release passes` or something like that (same goes for above where this is written)

>        - Validate that SBOM uploaded to Pyxis stage of the two components with ContentManifestComponents content.

Reviewer 3: Validate that the SBOM for both components were uploaded to Pyxis stage
